- [Tutor] When Maven runs a build,
it executes a sequence of phases known as a lifecycle.
Maven has three built-in life cycles:
clean, site, and the default life cycle.
The default life cycle has the most phases.
And it's normally what we use to build a project.
If we want to see the phases in the default life cycle,
we can describe them using the Help plugin.
All we need to do is pass the name
of the command to the plugin as an argument.
So I'm going to use the deploy phase here.
It's the last phase in the default lifecycle.
And that's going to allow us to see
all the phases that proceed it, there they are.
In total, there are 23 phases in the default life cycle
that we can execute using Maven or the Maven Wrapper.
You'll notice that some of these phases
like compile have a plugin goal next to them.
This is known as a binding.
Basically,
it's a mapping between a phase and a goal on a plugin.
If a goal is bound to a phase,
it will be executed when we reach that phase
in the life cycle.
Here's how it works.
Let's imagine that we executed the package phase.
That's not where Maven starts.
First, it's going to begin with the validate phase
and look to see if it has a plugin binding.
It doesn't.
So it's going to proceed then to the next phase
and look for a binding as well.
It's going to continue this until it finds
a face that does have a binding.
So here we see that the resources goal
is bound to the process-resources phase.
That will cause the resources goal to execute.
And then the same thing will happen for the compile phase.
It will execute the compile goal
on the Maven Compiler plugin.
This process is going to continue until we reach
and execute our package phase within the life cycle,
then Maven will stop.
Let's just go ahead
and see this in action by executing
the package phase with the Maven Wrapper.
There we can see a bit of output.
And just like we talked about,
you can see the different goals that were bound
to the different phases being executed.
There's resources, there's compile.
And then ultimately,
we wound up running the jar goal
to package our application into an archive.
Now, we're not limited to running one phase at a time.
If we would like,
we can go ahead and run a phase from another life cycle.
So here I'm using the clean phase from the clean life cycle.
And then I'll go ahead once again
and execute the package phase from the default life cycle.
Now, watch what happens as both phases
execute from both life cycles.
Now, you'll notice that another goal was executed.
So there we see the clean goal being executed.
And that's because there was a plugin binding for that goal
within the clean phase of the clean life cycle.
Then we continued to execute all of the plugin goals
that were bound to different phases
within the default life cycle.
There is a really helpful plugin that we can use to see
what goals are bound to what phases within the lifecycle.
The buildplan-maven-plugin shows us exactly that.
So let's go ahead, we'll execute the plugins list goal.
And then we can take a look at the output for our build.
So this makes it much easier to understand the life cycle.
Here you can see the different phases within the lifecycle.
Then it shows you the plugin goal that's bound to it.
And it gives you the name of the plugin.
I highly recommend using this plugin
to help better understand Maven's life cycles.
The life cycle phases
and plugin bindings are very important
because they determine the actions our build
takes to produce an artifact for our project.